What is a network?

A network is a group of two or more connected computing devices. Usually all devices in the network are connected to a central hub — for instance, a router. A network can also include subnetworks, or smaller subdivisions of the network. Subnetworking is how very large networks, such as those provided by ISPs, are able to manage thousands of IP addresses and connected devices.

What is a packet?

All data sent over the Internet is broken down into smaller chunks called "packets."

A packet has two parts: the header, which contains information about the packet itself, and the body, which is the actual data being sent.

At the network layer, networking software attaches a header to each packet when the packet is sent out over the Internet, and on the other end, networking software can use the header to understand how to handle the packet.

A header contains information about the content, source, and destination of each packet (somewhat like stamping an envelope with a destination and return address)

What is the OSI model?

The seven layers of the OSI model are:

7. Application layer: Data generated by and usable by software applications. The main protocol used at this layer is HTTP.
6. Presentation layer: Data is translated into a form the application can accept. Some authorities consider HTTPS encryption and decryption to take place at this layer.
5. Session layer: Controls connections between computers (this can also be handled at layer 4 by the TCP protocol).
4. Transport layer: Provides the means for transmitting data between the two connected parties, as well as controlling the quality of service. The main protocols used here are TCP and UDP.
3. Network layer: Handles the routing and sending of data between different networks. The most important protocols at this layer are IP and ICMP.
2. Data link layer: Handles communications between devices on the same network. If layer 3 is like the address on a piece of mail, then layer 2 is like indicating the office number or apartment number at that address. Ethernet is the protocol most used here.
1. Physical layer: Packets are converted into electrical, radio, or optical pulses and transmitted as bits (the smallest possible units of information) over wires, radio waves, or cables.
